Run frontend from go binary (#720)
kyma-project/btp-manager: docs/contributor/ui.md

# BTP Manager User Interface

> [!WARNING]
> This feature is in the experimental stage and is not yet available in the main branch or official releases.
> Use the latest development image to test the UI: europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/dev/btp-manager:PR-720

Follow steps below to run BTP Manager with UI:

> 1. Connect `kubectl` to your cluster by setting `KUBECONFIG` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Connect `kubectl` to your cluster by setting the **KUBECONFIG** environment variable.
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

```shell
export KUBECONFIG=<path-to-kubeconfig>

> ```

Reviewer: Please indent the code blocks and other content under each of the steps.

Author: Suggestion applied.

> 2. Make sure `btp-operator` module is disabled and there are no existing BtpOperator custom resources and deployments of BTP Manager and SAP BTP service operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Make sure the `btp-operator` module is disabled and there are no existing BtpOperator custom resources (CRs) and deployments of BTP Manager and the SAP BTP service operator.
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

```shell
kubectl get btpoperators -A
kubectl get deployment -n kyma-system btp-manager-controller-manager
kubectl get deployment -n kyma-system sap-btp-operator-controller-manager
```

> 3. Clone `btp-manager` repository and checkout to `sm-integration` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Clone the `btp-manager` repository and checkout to the `sm-integration` branch.
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/kyma-project/btp-manager.git
git checkout sm-integration
```

> 4. Set `IMG` environment variable to the image of BTP Manager with UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Set the **IMG** environment variable to the image of BTP Manager with UI.
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

```shell
export IMG=europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/dev/btp-manager:PR-720
```
5. Run makefile rule to deploy BTP Manager with UI.
```shell
make deploy
```
6. Check if BTP Manager deployment is running.
```shell
kubectl get deployment -n kyma-system btp-manager-controller-manager
```

> In case you encounter the following error during Pod creation due to Warden's admission webhook:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter the following error during Pod creation due to Warden's admission webhook:
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

```
Error creating: admission webhook "validation.webhook.warden.kyma-project.io" denied the request: Pod images europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/dev/btp-manager:PR-720 validation failed
```

> you need to scale BTP Manager deployment to 0 replicas, delete the webhook and the scale deployment back to 1 replica.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you must scale the BTP Manager deployment to 0 replicas, delete the webhook, and scale the deployment back to 1 replica.
```

```shell
kubectl scale deployment -n kyma-system btp-manager-controller-manager --replicas=0
kubectl delete validatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io validation.webhook.warden.kyma-project.io
kubectl scale deployment -n kyma-system btp-manager-controller-manager --replicas=1
```

> 7. Apply BtpOperator custom resource to create the secret with credentials to access Service Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Apply BtpOperator CR to create the Secret with credentials to access Service Manager.
```

Author: Suggestion applied.

# BTP Manager User Interface

> [!WARNING]
> This feature is in the experimental stage and is not yet available in the main branch or official releases.
> Use the latest development image to test the UI: europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/dev/btp-manager:PR-720

## Prerequisites

> For clusters different from Kyma (e.g. k3d), you need to install the [prerequisites](../../deployments/prerequisites.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For clusters different from Kyma (for example, k3d) you need to install the [prerequisites](../../deployments/prerequisites.yaml).
```

```shell
kubectl apply -f deployments/prerequisites.yaml
```

## Run BTP Manager with UI

> Follow steps below to run BTP Manager with UI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to run BTP Manager with UI:
```

1. Connect `kubectl` to your cluster by setting the **KUBECONFIG** environment variable.
    ```shell
    export KUBECONFIG=<path-to-kubeconfig>
    ```
2. Make sure the `btp-operator` module is disabled and there are no existing BtpOperator custom resources (CRs) and deployments of BTP Manager and the SAP BTP service operator.
    ```shell
    kubectl get btpoperators -A
    kubectl get deployment -n kyma-system btp-manager-controller-manager
    kubectl get deployment -n kyma-system sap-btp-operator-controller-manager
    ```
3. Clone the `btp-manager` repository and checkout to the `sm-integration` branch.
    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/kyma-project/btp-manager.git
    git checkout sm-integration
    ```

> 4. Set **IMG** environment variable to the image of BTP Manager with UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Set the **IMG** environment variable to the image of BTP Manager with UI.
```

    ```shell
    export IMG=europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/dev/btp-manager:PR-720
    ```

> 5. Run `deploy` makefile rule to deploy BTP Manager with UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run the `deploy` makefile rule to deploy BTP Manager with UI.
```

    ```
    If you encounter the following error during Pod creation due to Warden's admission webhook:
    ```
    Error creating: admission webhook "validation.webhook.warden.kyma-project.io" denied the request: Pod images europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/dev/btp-manager:PR-720 validation failed
    ```
    you must scale the BTP Manager deployment to 0 replicas, delete the webhook, and the scale the deployment back to 1 replica.
    ```shell
    kubectl scale deployment -n kyma-system btp-manager-controller-manager --replicas=0
    kubectl delete validatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io validation.webhook.warden.kyma-project.io
    kubectl scale deployment -n kyma-system btp-manager-controller-manager --replicas=1
    ```
7. Apply BtpOperator CR to create the Secret with credentials to access Service Manager.
    ```shell
    kubectl apply -n kyma-system -f examples/btp-operator.yaml
    ```
8. Port-forward to BTP Manager deployment.
    ```shell
    kubectl port-forward -n kyma-system deployment/btp-manager-controller-manager 8080:8080
    ```
9. Access the UI by opening `localhost:8080` in your browser.

### Cleanup

> After testing UI, you can delete BtpOperator custom resource and BTP Manager deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After testing the UI, you can delete the BtpOperator CR and BTP Manager deployment.
```

> 1. Delete BtpOperator custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Delete the BtpOperator CR.
```

    ```shell
    kubectl delete -n kyma-system btpoperator btpoperator
    ```

> 2. Delete BTP Manager deployment by running `undeploy` makefile rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Delete BTP Manager deployment by running the `undeploy` makefile rule.
```
